FPGA: Add a sample for Avalon memory-mapped interfaces using annotated_arg (#1869)
oneapi-src/oneAPI-samples: DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/Tutorials/Features/ip_authoring_interfaces/mmhost/README.md

  int size;

  void operator()() const {
    for (int i = 0; i < size; ++i) {
      z[i] = x[i] + y[i];
    }
  }
};
```

The following table describes the properties under `sycl::ext::intel::experimental` that can be used to customize how the pointer argument is passed to the component. Only one may be specified at a time. 

| Parameter                 | Description
|---                        |---
| `register_map`            | Pass the pointer for this memory-mapped host interface through the IP component's control/status register
| `conduit`                 | Pass the pointer for this memory-mapped host interface through a conduit interface
| `stable`                 | N/A | User guarantee that the pointer will not change between pipelined invocations of the kernel. The compiler uses this to further optimize the kernel.

The following parameters are found under `sycl::ext::intel::experimental`, with the exception of `alignment` under `sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental`. They can be used to configure an IP component's Avalon memory-mapped host interfaces:

| Parameter                | Default Value | Description
|---                       |---            |---

> |  `buffer_location<id>`   | N/A           | The address space of the interface that associates with the host. Each unique buffer location will result in a unique Avalon memory-mapped host interface. When `buffer_location` is not specified, then corresponding LSUs will connect to all of the IP's Avalon memory-mapped host interfaces.

Reviewer: I want to not say "LSU connects to all interfaces" - that is more like potential implementation detail. I think a user needs to know that if pointer to mem_X is passed via an unannotated pointer, then the pointer dereference will access the Avalon interface for mem_X.

It is a user error to perform read access on some mem_X with a raw pointer when mem_X interface is a write only interface (and similarly in analogous write case) - I think we can mention that here somewhere as a cautionary note.

Thoughts @whitepau ?

```suggestion
|  `buffer_location<id>`   | N/A           | The address space of the interface that associates with the host. Each unique buffer location will result in a unique Avalon memory-mapped host interface. When `buffer_location` is not specified, then the pointer can be used to access any of the IP's Avalon memory-mapped host interfaces depending on which memory the pointer points to.
```

| `awidth<width>`          | 41            | Width of the Avalon memory-mapped host address bus in bits. 
| `dwidth<width>`          | 64            | Width of the Avalon memory-mapped host data bus in bits. 
| `latency<value>`         | 1             | Read/Write latency for downstream fixed-latency Avalon memory-mapped agent. For a variable-latency Avalon memory-mapped agent, set `latency<0>`. 
| `read_write_mode<mode>`  | `read_write`  | Port direction of the interface. (`read_write`, `read` or `write`) 
| `maxburst<value>`        | 1             | Maximum number of data transfers that can associate with a read or write request. 

> | `alignment<alignment>`   | 1          | Alignment of the Avalon memory-mapped host interface

Reviewer: `Alignment` is a property of the pointer and not technically of the interface (it does not impact the generated interface, only how the compiler optimizes the memory accesses).
Should we make this change or is it too pedantic and potentially confusing?
@whitepau 

```suggestion
| `alignment<alignment>`   | 1          | Alignment of the pointer.
```

      sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::alignment<kAlignment>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::read_write_mode_read});
  using YProps = decltype(sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::properties{
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::buffer_location<kBL2>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::awidth<32>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::dwidth<32>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::latency<1>,
      sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::alignment<kAlignment>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::read_write_mode_read});
  using ZProps = decltype(sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::properties{
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::buffer_location<kBL3>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::awidth<32>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::dwidth<32>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::latency<1>,
      sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::alignment<kAlignment>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::read_write_mode_write});

  sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::annotated_arg<int *, XProps> x;
  sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::annotated_arg<int *, YProps> y;
  sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::annotated_arg<int *, ZProps> z;

  int size;

  void operator()() const {

> #pragma unroll 4

Reviewer: @whitepau Is there a reason for unrolling by 4 here? The datawidth is 32 bits only.

Reviewer 2: I think it's not needed here and can be removed.

    for (int i = 0; i < size; i++) {
      z[i] = x[i] + y[i];
    }
  }
};
```

### Interfacing with off-chip memory

If the input and output vectors are too large for on-chip memory, larger off-chip memories can be used. Consider the parameterization of a system with the following off-chip memory interfaces:

* Two banks of DDR SDRAM
* Data bus of 256 bits
* bursts of up to 8 requests

![](assets/ddr_avhost.svg)

The available memory bandwidth can be better used by coalescing the 32-bit wide load-store units into wider 256-bit wide load-store units to match the memory interface.

> #### Example 4: A kernel that interfaces with two off-chip memories

Reviewer: We should mention how specifying `alignment` property allows the compiler to assume the specified `alignment` and infer an optimized LSU. Without this property, compiler must infer a non-aligned LSU that has worse qor because it requires additional logic to handle potential unaligned accesses.

We should also state how when the `alignment` property is specified on the kernel argument, the user **must** also specify the same alignment to the SYCL runtime using the `aligned_alloc_shared` API as shown in the codesample otherwise the simulation run may have functional failures.

(Code can be found under `part4_ddr_hosts`).
```c++
struct DDRIP {
  using ParamsBl1 = decltype(sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::properties{
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::buffer_location<kBL1>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::maxburst<8>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::dwidth<256>,
      sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::alignment<kAlignment>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::awidth<32>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::latency<0>});

  using ParamsBl2 = decltype(sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::properties{
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::buffer_location<kBL2>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::maxburst<8>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::dwidth<256>,
      sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::alignment<32>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::awidth<kAlignment>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::latency<0>});

  sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::annotated_arg<int *, ParamsBl1> x;
  sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::annotated_arg<int *, ParamsBl1> y;
  sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::annotated_arg<int *, ParamsBl2> z;
  int size;

  void operator()() const {

> #pragma unroll 4

Reviewer: @whitepau This should be unroll by 8 no?

Reviewer: We should also state how since the `dwidth` is 256 bits, i.e., 32 bytes, we choose the unroll factor 8 (32 bytes / 4 (bytes per integer)) so that the compiler may coalesce 8 memory accesses into a single coalesced 32 byte wide access.

Reviewer 2: Looks like it should be 8 to me. The section before even mentioned bursts of up to 8 requests
